---
layout: post
title:  "Fuck Chef"
date:   2014-09-12 23:03:00
categories: stripstarter troubleshooting
---

Well, today marks the third day I've seriously invested in learning chef.  **Here's what I've found:**

1) If you don't mind uploading a bajillion dependency cookbooks to your hosted chef server, chef-client works fine on a VPS.

I'd set up an Ubuntu 14.04 virtual machine.  Spin it up, grab it's IP address, `knife bootstrap` it, and run `knife ssh ...` to run chef-client on it.  This was good for basic cookbooks, like nginx.  My cookbook for an app server involves about 7 of what I'll call first-level dependencies (including nginx, postgresql, redis, etc.)  The idea of uploading every dependency seemed like a daunting chore.  I ended up doing it, and it was.

What I found was there's this program to manage cookbooks and install them all for you, called Berkshelf.  Neat!

2) Berkshelf works great with chef-solo

Berkshelf seems to be designed for use with Vagrant, so I figured I'd just use Vagrant instead of a pure VM interface and I'd be able to just change the IP address when I wanted to spin up a production server, right?  Well, sorta.

I installed vagrant, gave my machine a static IP on a private network, and went through Berkshelf just list my cookbooks, `berks install`, include them in my stripstarter-cookbook metadata.rb and recipe, and *voila*.  I figured I should start with chef-solo and get that working - and with some minor exceptions things installed pretty well in my vagrant machine.

When it came time to switch over to chef-client provisioning, holy hell.  [Vagrant hell](https://github.com/berkshelf/vagrant-berkshelf/issues/188),  [Berkshelf hell](https://github.com/berkshelf/vagrant-berkshelf/issues/186), and after this special hell I decided to just scrap it.

{% highlight bash %}
E, [2014-09-12T17:57:58.260412 #70521] ERROR -- : Erb template app/views/campaigns/_form.html.erb has a syntax error:
E, [2014-09-12T17:57:58.260586 #70521] ERROR -- : -:1: syntax error, unexpected ')'
E, [2014-09-12T17:57:58.260631 #70521] ERROR -- : _buf = ''; _buf << ( form_for(@campaign) do |f| ).to_s; _buf << '
E, [2014-09-12T17:57:58.260662 #70521] ERROR -- :                                                  ^
E, [2014-09-12T17:57:58.260691 #70521] ERROR -- : -:22: syntax error, unexpected end-of-input, expecting ')'
E, [2014-09-12T17:57:58.263545 #70521] ERROR -- : Ridley::Errors::CookbookSyntaxError: Invalid template files in cookbook: stripstarter (0.1.0).
E, [2014-09-12T17:57:58.263651 #70521] ERROR -- : /Users/mzemel/.vagrant.d/gems/gems/ridley-4.0.0/lib/ridley/chef/cookbook.rb:201:in `validate'
{% endhighlight %}

Seriously, somehow I fucked up so bad my application code leaked into my chef recipe!  I had an old cookbook that was named the same as my application, but deleting that didn't seem to fix it.

So whatever, I'll just provision vagrant and spin up servers using chef-solo.  Not the worst thing in the world, I guess.

Lesson learned: chef-solo for vagrant, chef-client for VPSes?